---
title: "Bandit Lv 0~20"
lang: "en"
pubDate: "May 25 2026, 17:15"
---

Bandit: https://overthewire.org/wargames/bandit/

Bandit is a wargame for beginners (like myself) designed to teach basic skills needed to play other wargames.

## Level 0
Need to know how to use `ssh` to log into the remote server: `bandit.labs.overthewire.org` at port `2220`.

## Level 0 → 1
Use `cat` to display the content of `readme` which contains the password.

## Level 1 → 2
File name is `-` which also means a standard input. 

Be explicit when targetting this file: `cat ./-` or display everything(`*`) in current directory.

## Level 2 → 3
File name contain spaces. You can escape the spaces (`./hello\ world`)  or use quotations (`./"hello world"`).

## Level 3 → 4
Know the format of hidden files (`.hidden`) and how to list them (`ls -a`).

## Level 4 → 5
Good to know: `file`, `xargs`, and/or `find`

Use `find` to list all the files and execute `file` command to detect ASCII file.
Or you can also use `ls` to list all the files and pipe it with `xargs` to apply `file` command to each argument.

```sh
$ find . -maxdepth 1 -type f -exec file {} \;

# or

$ ls | xargs -I {} file ./{}
```

## Level 5 → 6

Use `find` with below filters:

- 1033 bytes in size -> `-size 1033c`
- human-readable -> `-exec file {}`
- not executable -> `! -executable`

## Level 6 → 7

Use `find` with below filters:

- owned by user bandit7 -> `-owner bandit7`
- owned by group bandit6 -> `-group bandit6`
- 33 bytes in size -> `-size 33c`

## Level 7 → 8

Print the content and pipe it with `grep` to find the password next to `millionth` text.

## Level 8 → 9

Good to know: `sort`, `uniq`

Sort the content and display strings with counts (`uniq -c`). This will show which string only appeared once.

Or you can pipe another command, `awk`, to only display the line with `count == 1`.

## Level 9 → 10

Good to know: `strings`, `grep`

```
strings - print the sequences of printable characters in files
```


## Level 10 → 11

Decode the given text file using `base64 -d`.


## Level 11 → 12

Good to know: `tr`, [ROT13](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ROT13)

Use ROT13 algorithm to decipher the content (No need to actually implement the algorithm. You can simply use `tr`).

## Level 12 → 13

Good to know: `file`, `tar`, `gzip`, `bzip2`

Check the type of each compressed file using `file` and use the correct tool to decompress the zip.

Repeat until you end up with ASCII file.

## Level 13 → 14

Good to know: `ssh` (SSH key), `scp`, `chmod`

Use `scp` or manually copy the private key from the server.

Change the permission of the private key to match with SSH type using `chmod`.

Then use `ssh` with this private key to login to next level.
You can find the password for the current level in `/etc/bandit_pass/`

## Level 14 → 15

Good to know: netcat (`nc`)

Use netcat to send current level's password to `localhost 30000`.

## Level 15 → 16

Good to know: `ncat`, SSL

use `ncat` to send current level's password on localhost with SSL encryption (`-ssl`).

## Level 16 → 17

Good to know: `ss`, `openssl`, `s_client`

Not quite sure if this is the correct method, but I used `ss` with port ranges between 31000-32000 to find which of them are listening.

```sh
$ ss -tlunp sport ge :31000 and sport le :32000
```

Then used `openssl s_client` to find out which of those ports are using SSL/TLS.

At last, used `ncat --ssl` to retrieve the private key.

## Level 17 → 18

Use `diff`.

## Level 18 → 19

Good to know: `scp`

Since we can't login to the server (it gets disconnected right away), you can execute `cat` command remotely using `ssh`, or use `scp` to download the file.


## Level 19 → 20

Use the given setuid binary file to up your permission and print the password located at `/etc/bandit_pass/`

## Level 20 → 21

Good to know: `tmux`, `nc`, Unix *job* control (`fg`, `bg`, `&`, etc...)

You can use two shells or use `&` to run it in the background.

1. use `nc -l <PORT>` to listen to any available port
2. on the other shell, use the given `suconnect <PORT>` file with the same port you chose
3. in the shell where `nc` is running, enter the current level's password

---

Continue reading for [Level 21 to 33](/log/16/)